School of Interactive Computing Chair
Job Title:
Chair
Job Type:
Full Time
School/Unit:
School of Interactive Computing
Qualifications/Job Description:
The College of Computing at the Georgia Institute of Technology invites applications and nominations for the position of Chair of the School of Interactive Computing.
The School’s charge is broad, ranging from robotics and machine learning to human-computer interaction and computational media, along with their applications in myriad domains, such as healthcare, education, and security, among others. The Chair, who reports to the Dean of the College of Computing, is responsible for all administrative, budgetary, and personnel decisions within the school, and will be responsible for leadership, management, and strategic vision for the next phase of the school’s growth.
The ideal candidate will have a distinguished record of research; a commitment to interdisciplinary education; experience managing budgets, strategy, and people; familiarity working with campus administrators and leaders; a track-record of and strong commitment to cultivating an equitable, diverse, and inclusive environment, including in faculty and staff development, hiring, and student recruitment; and a history of successfully engaging in industrial and community partnerships and external fundraising. We seek candidates with a PhD degree in a computing-related field, who are appointed at the rank of full professor or who have equivalent experience in a leading research university or research laboratory.
About the School of Interactive Computing
The School of Interactive Computing resides within the College of Computing at Georgia Institute of Technology (Georgia Tech). According to U.S. News and World Report, the Computer Science graduate program is currently ranked 8th nationally and the CS undergraduate program is ranked 5th (2020). Interactive Computing has 56 academic faculty (including joint appointments), 12 research faculty, 14 staff members, and 170 PhD students. Disciplines associated with the school include computer graphics, data visualization, human computer interaction, artificial intelligence and machine learning, learning sciences and technology, robotics and perception, and social and ubiquitous computing. The School of Interactive Computing operates four graduate programs—the MS degree in Human-Computer Interaction, the PhD degree in Human-Centered Computing, the PhD in Robotics, and the PhD in Machine Learning—and one interdisciplinary undergraduate program, in Computational Media. The school also participates in College-wide bachelor’s, master’s and doctoral degrees in Computer Science. The School houses the interdisciplinary GVU Center and plays a significant role in three university-wide interdisciplinary research units, the Institute for People and Technology (IPaT), the Institute for Robotics and Intelligent Machines (IRIM), and the Machine Learning Research Center (ML@GT).
Georgia Tech is an equal education/employment opportunity institution dedicated to building a diverse community. As part of our commitment to diversity, equity, and inclusion, we strongly encourage applications from women, minorities, individuals with disabilities, and veterans. We strive to be and promote a family-friendly environment and recognize that supporting this culture, at times, includes assisting dual-career couples with employment needs.
Georgia Tech provides equal opportunity to all faculty, staff, students, and all other members of the Georgia Tech community, including applicants for admission and/or employment, contractors, volunteers, and participants in institutional programs, activities, or services. Georgia Tech complies with all applicable laws and regulations governing equal opportunity in the workplace and in educational activities. Georgia Tech prohibits discrimination, including discriminatory harassment, on the basis of race, ethnicity, ancestry, color, religion, sex (including pregnancy), sexual orientation, gender identity, national origin, age, disability, genetics, or veteran status in its programs, activities, employment, and admissions. This prohibition applies to faculty, staff, students, and all other members of the Georgia Tech community, including affiliates, invitees, and guests.
How To Apply:
To ensure full consideration, candidates should complete the online application form, which will require submission of a CV, letter of application, names and contact information for five references (including one student or other mentee), and other supporting documents.
This search begins immediately and will continue until the position is filled. Review of applications will begin June 30, 2021. Should you have questions or interest in further discussing the position, please contact Prof. Richard Vuduc, chair of the search committee, at icchairsearch@cc.gatech.edu.
Application Date:
Tuesday, April 20, 2021
