School of Cybersecurity and Privacy Chair
Job Title:
School Chair
Job Type:
Full Time
School/Unit:
School of Cybersecurity and Privacy
Qualifications/Job Description:
The Georgia Institute of Technology invites applications from qualified individuals seeking to be the first Chair of the newly founded School of Cybersecurity and Privacy (SCP). The position is an unprecedented opportunity for leadership and vision. Success means you will lead the first interdisciplinary school at the Georgia Institute of Technology and help shape the way Georgia Tech pursues future interdisciplinary schools. Success also means that you will lead the development of cybersecurity and privacy as a unified academic unit. In short, we seek someone who wants to and can meet the challenge of melding their vision with a dynamic, broad ranging group of visionaries to build SCP into the world leader in cybersecurity and privacy.
History of Cybersecurity and Privacy at Georgia Tech.
SCP is the next step in the evolution of cybersecurity and privacy at GA Tech. GA Tech has 20 years of pioneering work in cybersecurity and privacy related research and education. In that time our work has excelled in distinct areas such as Business, Computer Science, Engineering, International Affairs, and Public Policy. The School has particular strengths and current research in cryptography, critical infrastructures security, systems and software security, network and Internet security, microelectronics and hardware security, cyber-physical system security, usable privacy and security, privacy and data protection regulation, election security, public policy in cybersecurity, the role of cyberspace and cyber power in international relations, robust and adversarial machine learning, cyber attribution, and national security implications of cybersecurity .
As further evidence of GA Tech’s success in cybersecurity and privacy to date, research expenditures top $30M annually from public and private sources. The School is closely aligned with the Georgia Tech Research Institute’s cybersecurity lab, with more than $100M annually in government sponsored applied research, and the Institute for Information Security and Privacy, all with a successful history of close industry collaboration and impact via research commercialization.
These successes led to a clear need: a way to formalize and leverage these efforts in one cohesive place. SCP was created in November 2020 to meet this need.
SCP: The Opportunity.
As the first interdisciplinary school at the Georgia Institute of Technology SCP will consist of 30+ tenure-track and research (including several holders of endowed chairs) faculty, postdocs, adjunct faculty and professional classified staff. This distinguished group will come from Computing, Engineering, Liberal Arts and Business Colleges. The School of Cybersecurity & Privacy will offer bachelors, masters, and doctoral degrees.
The ideal candidate will: Be a Full Professor with tenure in a premier department at a research university or have an equivalent position in industry or government in Business, Computer Science, Economics, Engineering, Finance, Humanities, International Affairs, Law, Public Policy, or any other field with a proven record of high impact contributions in cybersecurity or privacy. Candidates should have a proven record of achieving external visibility and funding; have demonstrated strong leadership and team building skills; care about the personal and educational enrichment of faculty, staff, and students; have experience with strategic planning, administrative oversight, fiscal management, and vision development; and embrace participatory management and transparent decision-making.
The School of Cybersecurity and Privacy is a high-visibility, high-impact, cross-college department unlike other Georgia Tech academic units. Candidates should demonstrate a willingness to innovate, both organizationally and pedagogically. Embracing a culture of collaboration and interdisciplinary breadth is essential to success in this new venture, and candidates should be prepared to elaborate on his/her vision for achieving those aims.
SCP is administratively housed in the College of Computing, and as the first interdisciplinary school, spans the Ivan Allen College of Liberal Arts, the College of Engineering, and the Scheller College of Business. Nationally, the U.S. News & World Report ranks Georgia Tech’s overall undergraduate education as #8 for public universities, and #1 in undergraduate cybersecurity education; the School of Public Policy’s Information Technology Management program is ranked #4; the Scheller College of Business is ranked #5 for Information Systems, and its undergraduate Information Systems specialty ranked #3; the Electrical Engineering graduate program is ranked #5; and the Computer Science graduate program is ranked #8. The Georgia Institute of Technology is a unit of the University System of the State of Georgia and its main campus is located in the heart of Atlanta, GA.
How To Apply:
To be considered, please submit online your CV, a letter of application, 5 reference names and contact information, and other supporting documents. Your application will remain confidential (known only to the search committee) until its final stage, at which point, with your permission, we will contact your references and request letters of support. Review of applications will begin on June 15, 2021. This search will continue until the position is filled.
Should you have any problems with the online submission, please contact scp-recruiting@cc.gatech.edu.
Georgia Tech provides equal opportunity to all faculty, staff, students, and all other members of the Georgia Tech community, including applicants for admission and/or employment, contractors, volunteers, and participants in institutional programs, activities, or services. Georgia Tech complies with all applicable laws and regulations governing equal opportunity in the workplace and in educational activities. Georgia Tech prohibits discrimination, including discriminatory harassment, on the basis of race, ethnicity, ancestry, color, religion, sex (including pregnancy), sexual orientation, gender identity, national origin, age, disability, genetics, or veteran status in its programs, activities, employment, and admissions. This prohibition applies to faculty, staff, students, and all other members of the Georgia Tech community, including affiliates, invitees, and guests.
Contact Email Address:
Start Date:
Wednesday, April 28, 2021
Application Date:
Thursday, April 15, 2021
