Division of Computing Instruction Director
Job Title:
Director
Job Type:
Full Time
School/Unit:
Division of Computing Instruction (DCI)
Qualifications/Job Description:
The College of Computing seeks a permanent full-time hire for the Director of the Division of Computing Instruction (DCI), who will also hold the working title of Lecturer, or possibly Senior Lecturer. This is a non-tenure-track academic (9 month) faculty appointment at the Georgia Institute of Technology, which is part of the University System of Georgia and governed by the Board of Regents. This appointment may be renewed annually based on the needs of the College, performance, and available funding. The University System of Georgia requires annual renewals for all non-tenure-track faculty, including career Lecturers within DCI. Summer teaching appointments may also be available.
Responsibilities: Mentor and supervise a team of Instructors, Lecturers, and Senior Lecturers to provide educational experiences in courses that meet all prescribed learning goals and objectives as well as meeting all applicable Georgia Tech, Federal, State, and Local laws and regulations. Teach a reduced load of undergraduate courses. Report directly to the Dean as a member of the CoC cabinet.
Education and Work Experience Requirements: The candidate must have at least a Master’s degree in Computer Science or a related field. The candidate should also have at least five years of teaching experience post-degree, excluding GRA/GTA teaching assignments. Applicants will be asked to provide examples of teaching effectiveness. Applicants must be able to work with a diverse group of faculty, staff, and students. Preferred qualifications include university-level teaching experience, managing other faculty, curriculum development, administration and committee service, and experience teaching large numbers of students.
How To Apply:
To ensure full consideration, all candidates are asked to submit materials online no later than May 31st, 2021. The position will remain open until filled. Application letter, an updated CV, a teaching statement, three references with full contact information (name, phone number, and email addresses), and any additional supporting documents. Please provide multiple examples of teaching effectiveness. The search will begin immediately and will continue until the position is filled. If there are questions, please contact Mr. Vonel Teragene at vonel.teragene@cc.gatech.edu.
Georgia Tech provides equal opportunity to all faculty, staff, students, and all other members of the Georgia Tech community, including applicants for admission and/or employment, contractors, volunteers, and participants in institutional programs, activities, or services. Georgia Tech complies with all applicable laws and regulations governing equal opportunity in the workplace and in educational activities. Georgia Tech prohibits discrimination, including discriminatory harassment, on the basis of race, ethnicity, ancestry, color, religion, sex (including pregnancy), sexual orientation, gender identity, national origin, age, disability, genetics, or veteran status in its programs, activities, employment, and admissions. This prohibition applies to faculty, staff, students, and all other members of the Georgia Tech community, including affiliates, invitees, and guests.
Contact Name:
Vonel Teragene
Contact Email Address:
Start Date:
Tuesday, April 20, 2021 to Monday, May 31, 2021
Educational Requirement:
Master’s Degree
Years of Experience:
5
Application Date:
Tuesday, April 20, 2021
