TEST - This Hybrid Mask is Easy to Make and Helps Prevent Disease Spread
For more information, email vtopping3@gatech.edu
A team of student entrepreneurs at Georgia Tech has developed a do-it-yourself hybrid mask and face shield to help people stay safe during the Covid-19 pandemic.
Using household items, the DIY mask/face shield can be made in 30 minutes or less and requires no 3D printing.
According to Tillson Galloway, a second-year computer science student and one of the creators, the hybrid mask/face shield is designed to be comfortable, convenient, and protect against micro-particles.
“Medical studies indicate that people touch their faces an average of 23 times an hour, which is one of the leading causes of infection. But, there is a shortage of medical-grade masks and most of DIY masks people are using are uncomfortable, ill-fitting, and provide a false sense of security,” said Galloway, who is from Charleston, South Carolina.
“Our hybrid approach prevents people from inadvertently touching their faces because it fully covers the face.”
Dubbed ‘Project FREE: Face Masks Reducing Exposure for Everyone’ by the developers, the hybrid DIY mask/face shield is made using a baseball cap, a jacket zipper, a cotton blend t-shirt, and a clear plastic book cover.
/sites/default/files/documents/2021/201102_plc_0.pdf
Tools needed for the project include:
• Scissors
• Stapler
• Needle and thread
• Marker
• Ruler
FAQ - Prospective Students
- Should I apply to the CSE or Computer Science (CS) degree program?
- How should I select a home unit in the CSE program?
- Can I change home unit once I have been admitted to the program?
- When do you admit new students?
Should I apply to the CSE or Computer Science (CS) degree program?
The CSE program includes emphases in areas such as high performance computing, data analytics, machine learning & visualization (e.g., for web search or data analytics), modeling and simulation, computational mathematics and numerical computing, computational science, and computational engineering, as discussed elsewhere on this web site. Also, the CSE degree program includes an emphasis on interdisciplinary research.
How should I select a home unit in the CSE program?
For Ph.D. students, an important consideration is the home unit of the program faculty with whom you have the closest research interests, since such faculty will most likely become your research advisor(s). In general, students homed in a particular discipline will be expected to have some proficiency within that discipline; for example, students homed in the School of Biology would be expected to have or develop a proficiency in Biology.
Can I change home unit once I have been admitted to the program?
Yes, with the approval of the home unit to which you are transferring. In most cases, an important consideration in granting such requests will be if a potential research advisor(s) in the home unit to which you wish to transfer has been identified.
When do you admit new students?
Please refer to the home unit website for deadlines. For example, School of CSE students are admitted in the Fall semester.
Horizontal Card with Image
Horizontal Card with Video
Fireside chat about his entrepreneurial journey
Horizontal Card with Video
