Lecturer
Job Type:
Full Time
School/Unit:
Division of Computing Instruction
Qualifications/Job Description:
The College of Computing at the Georgia Institute of Technology in Atlanta, Georgia was established in 1990 under the direction of the founding dean, Peter Freeman. The college is a world-class leader in research and computing breakthroughs. Based on the latest ranking in the U.S. News and World Report, our graduate program is currently ranked 8th nationally. The college consists of three schools that provide specialized and general computing education to the entire campus. The college of part of Georgia Institute of Technology, which is a unit of the University System of the State of Georgia and is primarily located in the heart of Atlanta, Georgia. Georgia Tech is ranked #34 amongst national universities.
The Division of Computing Instruction within the College of Computing invites applications for a full-time, non-tenure-track faculty position at the rank of Lecturer to start Fall of 2020. Primary responsibilities will include but not be limited to providing high quality classroom teaching. In particular, the lecturer is expected to teach 3 sections of introductory undergraduate classes per semester.
Applicants must have a Master’s Degree or preferably a PhD (or other terminal degree) or be enrolled in a PhD program close to completion by the time of appointment with a strong background and experience with teaching. This is a 9-month contract although summer teaching is typically available. This position can be renewed depending on funding and the needs of the College.
Application Procedure: We invite applications from qualified individuals immediately. To ensure full consideration, all candidates are asked to apply via email by May 31, 2020. Interested applicants should send, an email to Michelle Meadors, HR Manager at mmeadors3@cc.gatech.edu with “Lecturer Position” in the subject line. Applications should include a cover letter, curriculum vitae, teaching statement, material relevant to the applicant’s teaching abilities (course surveys, teaching examples etc.), and three recommendation letters. This search will begin right away and will continue until the position is filled.
Start Date:
Saturday, August 1, 2020
Educational Requirement:
Master’s Degree
Application Date:
Sunday, May 31, 2020
