Welcome to TECHlanta: The Capital of the New South
And thanks in part to America's No. 7 public university, Georgia Tech, Atlanta is being hailed as a tech hub by everyone from highly-skilled technology-focused college graduates to leaders of major corporations and all the key players in between.
Just take a look at the headlines:
- Atlanta Named One of Top 10 U.S. Cities for Innovation
- Atlanta's Tech Scene is Growing Startups in Incubators, Universities, and Accelerators
- Atlanta Named Top 5 Tech Talent Market, Sees Tech Jobs and Wages Increase
As major corporations move in, startups continue to settle in hotspots like Tech Square, and highly qualified talent remains abundant in the area as tech-focused college students tap into research opportunities in the area, Atlanta is solidifying itself as a cornerstone for technological innovation in the world.
Whether you're looking for a tech hub, yearning for experiences in the arts, searching for the great outdoors, or hoping to enjoy dining, music, and exciting hometown sports, one thing is clear ...
Atlanta is the place to be to Create the Next.
The Great Outdoors
The Great Outdoors
Everyone likes a break from their screens on occasion, and Atlanta offers a host of options to stretch your legs and hit the great outdoors. Visit one of the city's sprawling parks, most notably the 185-acre Piedmont Park just a mile from campus, float the Chattahoochee River, boat around Lake Lanier, or hike dozens of state parks and trails. If you have a long weekend and want to get away, you can even be at the beach inside of five hours.
A City United
Nothing unites a city quite like its hometown sports teams. Atlanta is home to a host of them, including the Atlanta Falcons, Atlanta Braves, Atlanta Hawks, Atlanta Dream, and, the city's newest champion, Atlanta United F.C. With new venues like Mercedes-Benz Stadium, Truist Park and the Battery Atlanta, and the newly renovated State Farm Arena, it has become about much more than just the competition -- they are must-see social experiences.
