Diversity Resources
Students with Disabilities
Job & Internship Resources
Disability Equality Index (DEI)
DEI is a national, transparent benchmarking tool that offers businesses an opportunity to receive an objective score, on a scale of zero to 100, on their disability inclusion policies and practices. Check the annual report to see employers of choice in your field.
Connects employers with student interns who have disabilities. Recruits students with apparent and non-apparent disabilities studying in science, engineering, mathematics, computer science, and some areas of business.
This organization assists students with scholarships, professional development webinars along with information about internships and full-time job opportunities.
Bender provides disability employment resources in the areas of recruitment, workplace mentoring, strategic planning, training, and digital accessibility to drive innovation and realize business value for customers.
College and graduate students with disabilities can connect to mentors and professionals in computing fields and find internships and potential employment opportunities.
Professional Development & Associations
The American Association of People with Disabilities
Offers a summer internship program to undergraduate, graduate, and recent graduates in Congressional offices, federal agencies, non-profits, and for-profit organizations. Interns are matched with a mentor that can assist them with reaching their career goals. Internships are full time and unpaid.
US Business Leadership Network
The Rising Leaders Mentoring Program provides students and recent graduates the opportunity to meet with professionals in their area of interest for 6 months. This is not a job placement program, but it does offer the mentees the chance to gain professional development and guidance in transitioning into the workforce.
Educational Resources
United States Department of Labor
Provides information on over 45 topics related to the job search process for individuals with disabilities. Policy updates, events, and additional resources are also available.
Assists job seekers, employees, and employers in learning more about accommodations in the workplace. Provides an A-Z list of disabilities as well as accommodations and includes publications and articles on accommodations and compliance.
Equal Employment Opportunity Commission (EEOC)
The U.S. Equal Employment Opportunity Commission (EEOC) enforces federal laws which make it illegal to discriminate against a job applicant or an employee because of the person's race, color, religion, sex (including pregnancy, gender identity, and sexual orientation), national origin, age (40 or older), disability or genetic information.
Women
AnitaB.org connects, inspires, and guides women in computing, and organizations that view technology innovation as a strategic imperative. Known worldwide for the annual Grace Hopper Celebration conference in the US & India each Fall.
National Center for Women & Information Technology
The National Center for Women & Information Technology (NCWIT) helps more than 1,100 organizations recruit, and advance women from K-12 and higher education through industry and entrepreneurial careers.
Association for Women in Computing
The purpose of AWC is to provide opportunities for professional growth through networking and programs on technical and career-oriented topics.
A resource for women in computing. This website includes articles on role models, professional development, and book reviews.
US Women’s Chamber of Commerce
The U.S. Women's Chamber of Commerce gives voice to the collective strength of women in the U.S. economy. Using a platform of influence, innovation, and opportunity, they work with and for their members to grow successful businesses and careers. helps women start and build successful businesses and careers, gain access to government contracts, grow as leaders and prepare for a secure retirement.
Empowers pre-professional women in science, technology, engineering and math (STEM) through content, communities, and conferences. Scientista serves to connect all communities of women in STEM and build a cohesive network of women in science.
Association for Women in Science
This organization is dedicated to driving excellence in STEM by achieving equity and full participation of women in all disciplines and across all employment sectors.
Tech Intersections provides a space for the women of color most underrepresented in tech to come together and learn from each other’s successes, challenges, and experiences.
Underrepresented Students
Institute for African American Mentoring in Computing Sciences
The Institute for African-American Mentoring in Computing Sciences serves as a national resource for all African-American computer science students and faculty, including hosting a national conference annually.
Black Data Processing Associates (BDPA)
International organization with a diverse membership of professionals and students at all levels in the fields of information technology, computer science and related S.T.E.M fields. Members are actively engaged in serving the community through outreach.
National Society of Black Engineers (NSBE)
NSBE’s mission is "to increase the number of culturally responsible Black engineers who excel academically, succeed professionally and positively impact the community." The organization is dedicated to the academic and professional success of African-American engineering students and professionals. NSBE offers its members leadership training, professional development activities, mentoring opportunities, and career placement services.
Leadership Education for Asian Pacific (LEAP)
Leadership Education for Asian Pacific, Inc. (LEAP) is a national, nonprofit organization, with a mission to achieve full participation and equality for Asian and Pacific Islanders (APIs) through leadership, empowerment, and policy.
Conference on Asian Pacific Leadership (CAPAL)
The Conference on Asian Pacific American Leadership (CAPAL) is a charitable and educational organization dedicated to building leadership and public policy knowledge within the Asian Pacific American community.
Society of Hispanic Professional Engineers (SHPE)
Since 1974, over 40 years ago, SHPE has been changing lives by empowering the Hispanic community to realize its fullest potential and impact the world through STEM awareness, access, support, and professional development.
United States Hispanic Chamber of Commerce (USHCC)
The USHCC actively promotes the economic growth and development of Hispanic entrepreneurs.
Society for Advancement of Hispanics and Native Americans in Science (SACNAS)
Dedicated to fostering the success of Hispanic/Chicano and Native American scientists to attain advanced degrees, careers, and positions of leadership in science.
Community Groups
Techqueria is a nonprofit that serves the largest community of Latinx professionals in tech.
We are a non-profit organization with the aim to connect, support, and empower Latina women working in tech. We work hand in hand with top technology companies to create safe spaces for learning, mentorship and recruitment.
ColorStack’s mission is to increase the entrance, retention and success of Black, Latinx, and Native American college students in computing. We’re cultivating the largest digital community of its kind to deliver community building, academic support, and career development opportunities at scale.
Our mission is to empower the Black community to achieve socio-economic change through technical education and professional development. We Build Black creates opportunities for Black technologists to network, share skills, give and receive mentorship, and discover their next employer. By nurturing the existing community of Black technologists and creating pathways into tech, we're building a more equitable tech industry for ourselves and the next generation.
/dev/color, a non-profit organization, helps Black software engineers grow into industry leaders. We firmly believe that we, as Black software engineers, have a lot of agency in this. Our programs start with, and hold at their core, Black software engineers taking action themselves.
Blacks In Technology is a global platform for Black people in technology. We are "Stomping the Divide" by establishing standards for world class technical excellence. BIT serves members through community, media and mentorship. We provide resources, guidance and challenge members to establish new standards of innovation.
LGBTQI+
A civil rights organization working to achieve equality for lesbian, gay, bisexual, transgender and queer Americans. The organization represents more than 3 million members and supporters nationwide.
Lesbians Who Tech & Allies is the largest community of LGBTQ women, non-binary and trans individuals in and around tech (and the people who support them).
National LGBT Chamber of Commerce
NGLCC supports and advocates for diversity and inclusion for lesbian, gay, bisexual, and transgender (LGBT)-owned businesses. NGLCC works to ensure implementation of pro-business, LGBT-inclusive policies at the federal, state, and local levels of government.
The mission of O4U is to help high-achieving LGBTQ+ undergraduates reach their full potential. Available mentorships and conferences are available in technology career pathways as well as other STEM fields.
oSTEM is a national society dedicated to educating and fostering leadership for LGBTQA communities in the STEM field.
Career Services Resources
- Student Resources
- Career Fair
- Recruiter Information
