Explore Your Degree
The College of Computing’s undergraduate degree programs provide you with a pathway for self-exploration, innovation, and collaboration through our unique Threads curriculum. Together, students and the Career Services team can chart a path where the CoC community and mentorship help open doors to professional success. Whether you know exactly what you want to pursue or you need more time to explore the degree, our outstanding network of career advisors, student leaders, alumni, and mentors will provide you the support necessary to succeed.
Career Exploration
Career Services provides a space to discover your interests, discover yourself as a professional, and research opportunities available today and in the future. Computing touches every industry and we are here to assist you with exploring all of the possibilities.
See a few options available in your field of study through the Career Services Guide.
Personal Branding
Just like a company’s brand is what they are known for, your personal brand is your professional representation. It’s an authentic representation of what makes you uniquely you. Your passions, perspectives and values; the photos on your Facebook page, the clothes you wear, the way you introduce yourself—all of these things convey your essence. In today’s job market, it is increasingly important to share who you are and what you have to offer an employer. Think about your “and” as it relates to computing (computing + ____).
ABC’s of a Personal Brand
Check out this site for an A to Z breakdown for how to develop your personal brand
LinkedIn for Students
LinkedIn is the world’s largest professional networking site, and your LinkedIn profile should be an important part of your branding strategy. Access videos and other tutorials to help you maximize the use of LinkedIn in your job search. Visit https://university.linkedin.com/linkedin-for-students
Careers & Threads
The College of Computing Threads program is a one-of-a-kind curriculum that allows you the freedom to explore your degree in computing and create pathways for unique careers. The beauty as you approach graduation is that you will learn from alumni and upperclassmen that your Threads do not define you or dictate a specific career path. When you leave Georgia Tech, you will have breadth and depth in engineering disciplines and the academic foundation that will allow you to pivot into new and exciting roles as you continue to grow and learn.
Resources:
-
Search for job opportunities near your hometown with Buzzfile
-
Explore career options with major guides provided by WayUp
-
Explore careers and companies with Vault or the Occupational Outlook Handbook
-
Considering working abroad, begin with GoinGlobal to help you navigate country-by-country
-
Review videos and information about pursuing careers and graduate school education in computer research with Conquer
Where are our Alumni?
Georgia Tech's College of Computing students have a variety of skills and the range of employment spans across a large number of industries. Below is a list of job titles held by College of Computing students during internships and your alumni upon graduation. This list was generated from self-reported information on the College of Computing Career Surveys (Summer & Exit Surveys)
Community
Career Services Resources
- Student Resources
- Career Fair
- Recruiter Information
