Maps & Directions
College of Computing Building
- Mailing and physical address:
801 Atlantic Drive
Atlanta, GA 30332-0280
- Map and Directions to CCB | Map to Visitor Parking
Visitors to the College of Computing Building should park at the State Street Visitor’s Lot at the intersection of Ferst Drive and State Street on campus. The cost is $2.00 per hour, payable by cash or card in advance.
From the entrance to the visitor’s parking lot, head east on Ferst Drive walking toward Atlantic Drive. Turn right on Atlantic Drive and the College of Computing building is the 2nd on the left. The main entrance is off the courtyard.
Klaus Advanced Computing Building
- Mailing and physical address:
266 Ferst Drive
Atlanta, GA 30332-0765
- Map and Directions to Klaus | Map to Visitor Parking
Visitors to the Klaus Advanced Computing Building should park at the State Street Visitor’s Lot at the intersection of Ferst Drive and State Street on campus. The cost is $2.00 per hour, payable by cash or card in advance.
- School of Computational Science and Engineering Chair Suite:
Room 1320 of KACB
From the entrance to the visitor’s parking lot, head east on Ferst Drive walking toward Atlantic Drive. Turn right on Atlantic Drive and the College of Computing building is the 2nd on the left. Walk through the courtyard and then through the breezeway between the College of Computing Building and the Microelectronics Research Building. Walk across the Binary Bridge over to the Klaus Building.
Technology Square Research Building
- Mailing and physical address:
85 Fifth Street, NW
Atlanta, GA 30308
- Map and Directions to TSRB | Map to Visitor Parking
Visitors to the Technology Square Research Building should park in the Centergy Parking Deck (directly behind TSRB), 815 Williams Street NW. The cost is $2.00 per hour, payable by cash or card upon departure.
Exit the parking deck by taking the elevator to Level 5.Walk across the breezeway and the entrance to TSRB is on your right.
Coda Building
- Mailing and physical address:
756 W Peachtree St NW
Atlanta, GA 30308
- Map and Directions to Coda | Map to Visitor Parking
Visitors to the Coda Building should park in the Georgia Tech Hotel/Global Learning Center Deck (directly in front of Coda), 800 Spring Street NW. The cost is $18/day for unlimited in/out access.
Exit the parking deck on ground level and walk straight to the Coda Building across the street. The entrance for the building will be located on your right.
View the Georgia Tech Parking Map Here
Questions?
CCB Building Contact
building@cc.gatech.edu
KACB Building Contact
kacb-building@cc.gatech.edu
TSRB Building Contact
tsrb-building@cc.gatech.edu
Coda Building Contact
codabuilding@gatech.edu
