School of Interactive Computing
Our School nurtures an open, inclusive, supportive environment made stronger through multiple perspectives and diverse expertise. Research takes faculty and students on a path to study and invent computational capabilities that empower people and machines to affect the world. Through innovation in education, we are preparing a new generation of computational scholars to examine the big picture of computing: how it impacts humans.
Our faculty conceived the discipline of interactive computing to examine the impacts computation and computing-mediated interactions have on life’s “big issues,” such as health care and national security, but also on the everyday activities in which all of us engage: children playing video games, adults keeping in touch with elderly parents, professionals using computers as tools in the workplace. These interactions take place not in laboratories but in homes and offices, schools and hospitals, and computation plays a central role.
Our research focuses on: artificial intelligence and machine learning; geometry, graphics and animation; human-centered computing and cognitive science; information visualization and visual analytics; robotics and computational perception; social computing and computational journalism; ubiquitous and wearable computing; and virtual and augmented environments. Together these areas form a rich, panoramic view of the myriad ways computing and computational devices interact with their human creators and users.
Our School has taken the initiative in creating new, more effective techniques and practices for computing education. At the doctoral level, we led the development of Georgia Tech’s Ph.D. in robotics; we’ve led a national trend in offering a Ph.D. in human-centered computing; and we offer a Ph.D. in computer science. At the undergraduate level, we play a fundamental role in the College of Computing’s Threads program and are responsible for the four most interdisciplinary and outward-facing of the Threads: Media, Intelligence, People, and Devices.
Our 40-plus faculty members strive for scholarly excellence and prominence. We contribute to scientific knowledge. We create technology that focuses the power of computing to address the world’s needs, from the individual all the way to society and everywhere in between.
