Buildings and Facilities
College of Computing Building (CCB)
Map and Directions to CCB | Visitor Parking information
The CCB is home to the administrative offices for the College and the Institute for Robotics & Intelligent Machines (IRIM).
The building also houses nine instructional classrooms and three computer labs. The labs are available to students taking a CS course requiring specialized resources. They provide over 30 seats to service CS courses that require special software or capabilities not readily available in the general clusters provided by OIT.
The CCB provides meeting space for undergraduate and graduate student organizations and a spacious commons area. The common area has ample seating and computer networking which fosters both formal and informal learning opportunities and collaboration. A highly visible conference room is available to all faculty, staff, and students for conducting meetings with remote collaborators. The conference room is equipped with a Cisco TelePresence C40 system.
A 2,000-square-foot data center provides over 500 kilowatts of power and cooling capacity for the College’s research and instructional computational servers. An advanced infrastructure providing 1 Gbps networking to all ports with a 10 Gbps uplink to the campus network as well as high-density 802.11n wireless networking support.
Klaus Advanced Computing Building (KACB)
Map and Directions to Klaus | Visitor Parking information
The 414,000-square-foot Klaus Advanced Computing Building is located in the heart of the Georgia Tech campus.
KACB is home to School of Computer Science, six research centers, and over 20 research labs spanning multiple research groups. The building also contains some of the most advanced computing labs and innovative educational technology in the world. There are 70 research laboratories, six instructional labs, and five large classrooms.
The building contains open collaboration spaces, study lounges and graduate student offices, all with ample power and networking ports. There is a 200-seat auditorium and state of the art conference facilities that accommodate several of the College's special events, lectures and meetings.
All conference rooms are equipped with projection technology, table networking and power. A highly visible conference room is available to all faculty, staff and students for conducting meetings with remote collaborators. It is equipped with a Polycom HDX 8000 video conferencing system
A 500-square-foot data center in the building providing 80 kilowatts of power and cooling capacity for critical enterprise servers. The building's advanced infrastructure provides 1 Gpbs networking to all ports with a 10 Gbps uplink to the campus network as well as high-density 802.11n wireless networking support
The KACB is LEED gold-certified, with environmentally friendly features such as:
- Creative use of the 6-acre urban campus site to preserve over 50 percent of the site as green space
- A stormwater collection system to provide water for irrigation
- Energy-efficient heating, cooling and lighting systems
- Extensive use of recyclable materials
Interested in renting an event space in Klaus?
Trying to find the right space for your event? Browse the different conference rooms and meeting spaces available in Klaus.
Find rental forms, pricing, set-up instructions and more on our Klaus Events Spaces - FAQ page.
Please contact kacb-building@gatech.edu with any questions not listed on this page.
Technology Square Research Building (TSRB)
Map and Directions to TSRB | Visitor Parking information
Located in the innovative and pedestrian-friendly, mixed-use Technology Square district of Georgia Tech. Map and directions
TSRB is home to the School of Interactive Computing, GVU Center, and over 15 College of Computing research labs spanning multiple research groups.
The building also houses state of the art conference facilities that accommodate several of the College's special events, lectures and meetings. A 400-square-foot data center providing 100 kilowatts of power and cooling capacity for several research computational servers. The building's advanced infrastructure provides 1 Gbps networking to all ports with a 10 Gbps uplink to the campus network as well as high-density 802.11n wireless networking support.
Coda Building
Map and Directions to Coda | Visitor Parking information
Coda serves as the pinnacle of innovation for Midtown Atlanta’s Tech Square. The facility combines creative workplace design with cutting-edge research labs, comfortable communal spaces, industry event space, as well as unique retail concepts and restaurants.
Coda Community Support Services (CSS)
The Coda Community Support Services Team provides operational support for the Coda Building and administrative support to academic and research neighborhoods within Coda. Our office is on 12th floor East, and we are open 8am-5pm. Need help?
- For general questions and requests, you can reach the CSS team 8am-5pm by phone (404-374-7378), email (codabuilding@gatech.edu), or in the 12th floor East CSS suite.
- Need a location for a meeting or event? We can also help with that! Please email codabuilding@gatech.edu to explore opportunities.
- The ServiceNow "Coda" tile has helpful articles, guides, and information in an easy to access format. It is also the easiest way to submit service or access requests. Please check it out!
- Portman Holdings provides onsite security 24/7. The security desk is located in the Lobby, and can be reached at (404) 920-2510.
- The Collective provides food and coffee options for Coda inhabitants and guests. A full list of vendors and menus is available online.
Click here for more information.
BUILDINGS AND FACILITIES SERVICES
Questions?
CCB Building Contact
building@cc.gatech.edu
KACB Building Contact
kacb-building@cc.gatech.edu
TSRB Building Contact
tsrb-building@cc.gatech.edu
Coda Building Contact
codabuilding@gatech.edu
