From the Dean's Desk - Aug. 18, 2020
Dear GT Computing community,
I am pleased to note that Vivek Sarkar has officially taken over as the chair of the School of Computer Science as of this week. With Haesun Park in place as chair of Computational Science and Engineering as of last week, we now have our full slate of school leadership in place. Also, not for nothing, but I am very pleased to note that out of our four schools and divisions, three are now headed by women. The College is modeling what it means to create excellence by bringing together a diverse group of leaders, something we know we need across our entire field.
I would like once again to thank Srinivas Aluru and Mostafa Ammar for serving as interim chairs for CSE and SCS for the past year. I would say that we will miss their leadership, but we have nothing to worry about there. Srinivas will continue in his role as Executive Director of IDEAS, and Mostafa is sticking around to help the College launch our new School for Cybersecurity and Privacy. He will be working with Mustaque Ahamad and Wenke Lee, as well as other faculty across the Institute, to help build SCP in preparation for the day it fully opens its doors.
On a more prosaic note, I want to remind everyone who comes into campus to pick up their Institute-provided PPE, namely two masks and a personal refillable bottle of hand sanitizer. The locations for each building are as follows:
- Coda: Floor 12E, Coda Support Services Team. Please call (404) 374-7378 and wait outside the of the CSS glass doors for service.
- CCB: CCB Mailroom 033
- Klaus: CCB Mailroom 033
- TSRB: Cori Wilson, Room 211
There have been some other changes to our operations now that we have students back on campus; please consult our business continuity webpage for updates on building access, deliveries, facilities and mail.
Peace.
--
Charles L. Isbell, Jr.
John P. Imlay, Jr. Dean
College of Computing
Georgia Tech
EA: Alicia Richhart, alicia@cc.gatech.edu, 404-894-8357
Don't just adopt opinions, develop them
Diverse group of leaders: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=3hGSqqhhokE
Sticking around: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=UMsB4FLuPfc
Business Continuity Page: https://www.cc.gatech.edu/continuity
Take care of yourselves: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=drGx7JkFSp
