USG Regents' Professor, Joint with the Sam Nunn School of International Affairs; Co-director of the Center for International Strategy, Technology, and Policy
http://www.cc.gatech.edu/~goodman
Research Areas: Emerging technologies and conflict, critical infrastructures
Biography
Seymour (Sy) E. Goodman is Regents Professor at the Georgia Institute of Technology. He holds appointments in the Sam Nunn School of International Affairs within the Ivan Allen College, and the School of Cybersecurity and Privacy within the College of Computing, and as an Adjunct Professor in the School of History and Sociology. He served as Co-Director of the Center for International Strategy, Technology, and Policy (2001-) and Co-Director of the Georgia Tech Information Security Center (2000-2013). Prof. Goodman was founding director and is now Director Emeritus of the Sam Nunn Security Program (Nunn-MacArthur Program). Dr. Goodman was selected as a National Associate of the National Academies of Science, Engineering, and Medicine (since 2016).
At Georgia Tech Prof. Goodman studies developments in the information technologies and related public policy and societal issues, and technological developments and their influence on the conduct and outcomes of large-scale conflicts. Current interests are in the resilience and security of critical infrastructures and curriculum development for the School of Cybersecurity and Privacy. Earlier research pursuits include mathematical physics, theoretical computer science, Soviet and East European studies, and the global diffusion of the Internet. He has over 150 publications, hundreds of invited presentations, served on many academic, government, and industry advisory, study, and editorial committees, including almost 20 years as International Perspectives editor for the Communications of the ACM. Dr. Goodman has pursued his interests on all seven continents and in over 100 countries. Since 1975 over a dozen funders have supported his work, including the NSF, the MacArthur, Rich, and Callahan Foundations, the Georgia Humanities Council, the International Telecommunication Union, and the Department of Defense since his arrival at Georgia Tech in 2000.
Immediately before coming to Georgia Tech, Prof. Goodman was the director of the Consortium for Research in Information Security and Policy (CRISP), with the Center for International Security and Cooperation (CISAC) at Stanford University. He held a variety of appointments at the University of Virginia (Applied Mathematics, Computer Science, Soviet and East European Studies), the University of Chicago (Economics), Princeton University (The Woodrow Wilson School of Public and International Affairs, Mathematics), and the University of Arizona (MIS in the College of Business and Public Administration, Soviet and Russian Studies, Middle Eastern Studies). Prof. Goodman was an undergraduate at Columbia University (city planning, civil engineering, applied mathematics), and earned his Ph.D. from the California Institute of Technology in 1970 where he worked on problems of applied mathematics and mathematical physics.
