Master of Science in Human-Computer Interaction
The study of HCI comprises topics such as research to understand end users and their needs, iterative user interface design methods, and the development of new interaction technologies. The field is broad, with an underlying goal of understanding how computers and technology affect people and society.
The MS in HCI is an interdisciplinary program offered collaboratively by four schools:
Students enter the MS-HCI program through any of the four participating units, the choice of which reflects that student's intended area of specialization and general background. Students with diverse and eclectic backgrounds are encouraged to apply, including those with previous work experience.
As a professional degree program, the MS-HCI degree provides the practical skills and theoretical understandings needed to become leaders in the design, implementation and evaluation of the next generation of human-computer interfaces. Alumni work around the globe for national and international companies.
Find out about program requirements, faculty, students and more on the MS HCI program website.
Visit the MS-HCI program website
Program of Study
The degree requires 36 credit hours, which are taken over four semesters. All students take the same core courses, a set of courses related to their chosen specialization (Computing, Digital Media in LMC, Industrial Design, Psychology), a broader set of electives and complete a master’s project. Students complete an internship in the summer after their first year of study.
Elective courses can be in a wide variety of areas, such as Architecture, Music Technology, Industrial and Systems Engineering, Computer Science, Human-Robot Interaction, Human Factors, Management of Technology and Cognitive Science. Students can earn the Management of Technology Certificate from the College of Management.
More than 50 faculty work in these and closely-related areas, and are associated with research labs and centers such as the GVU Center, the Institute for People and Technology, the Aware Home, the Interactive Media Technology Center, the Sonification Lab, GTRI and many more.
