How to Make a Gift
Listed below are several methods of making a gift to the College of Computing. Please remember that many companies will match gifts to educational institutions, considerably increasing the size of your gift.
Make a cash gift to the College of Computing Dean's Fund
To make a cash gift designated to the Georgia Tech College of Computing, simply make your check payable to the Georgia Tech Foundation Inc. and mail it to the following address:
Georgia Institute of Technology
College of Computing | Office of Development
801 Atlantic Drive
Atlanta, GA 30332-0280
Be sure to include a completed copy of the College of Computing Gift Form stating that you'd like your gift to be directed to the College of Computing Dean’s Fund. The Georgia Tech Foundation, Inc. Tax ID is 58-6043294. (Many browsers natively support PDF reading – if yours does not, or if special accommodations are needed, Adobe Acrobat Reader DC is a free tool.)
Make a gift by credit card
To make a donation using a credit card, please the Institute's Office of Development website. Accepted cards include Master Card, Visa, American Express, Discover, and Diners Club.
Make a gift by wire transfer
For gifts by wire transfer, please contact Pat Barton, Director of Gift Account, at 404-894-5544 to inform Georgia Tech of your coming gift to ensure your transfer is credited properly.
Make a gift of stock electronically to Georgia Tech
To make an electronic transfer of stock to the Georgia Tech Foundation, please contact Linda Lilly. Call 404-894-6130 or e-mail Linda Lilly.
Matching Gifts
Many companies match the gifts of their current or retired employees. Your company’s human resources department can provide details on its policies and can provide a matching gift form to include with a gift sent to the Georgia Tech Foundation. Not sure if your company has a match gift policy? Visit the Georgia Tech matching gift website to find out.
Can I receive a tax deduction for my gift?
Different deductions are associated with different gifts. Factors influencing tax deductions include the assets you are giving Georgia Tech and when a specific asset is given. In general, for outright gifts to Tech, you will receive an income-tax charitable deduction.
More questions?
For additional information on annual giving to Georgia Tech or to make an online donation to Roll Call, please visit GIVE ONLINE.
