John P. Imlay Jr. Series on Entrepreneurship
Speaker Series
The John P. Imlay Jr. Speaker Series is an initiative to bring alumni, students, faculty, and friends of the College of Computing together to engage in conversations around entrepreneurship. During each fireside chat, guest speakers share more about their personal entrepreneurial journey, as well as their thoughts on various topics including leadership, investing in specific regions or industries, overcoming obstacles, and more
To highlight these entrepreneurs and inspire those that follow, GT Computing has established the John P. Imlay Jr. Series on Entrepreneurship. This series began in 2019 with profiles of GT Computing students, alumni, and faculty that are shaping the College's entrepreneurial culture. In fall 2020, we expanded the initiative to include a monthly speaker series.
Chris Klaus
Chris Klaus, founder and CEO Kaneva, Inc., joins Dr. Irfan Essa, Senior Associate Dean of the College of Computing, for a fireside chat about his entrepreneurial journey and why he is passionate about making entrepreneurship more accessible to students
Kabir Barday
Kabir Barday, founder and CEO of OneTrust and GT Alumni Association 40 under 40 honoree, joins Dr. Rich DeMillo, Interim Chair of the School of Cybersecurity and Privacy, for a fireside chat about his entrepreneurial journey, the growth and success of OneTrust, and the importance of cybersecurity education.
Mark Buffington and Paul Judge
Mark Buffington and Paul Judge, the forces behind Panoramic Ventures, join Dr. Charles Isbell, Dean and John P. Imlay Jr. Chair, for a fireside chat about how they plan to change the entrepreneurship landscape in Atlanta and why it is important to them to focus on underserved regions and overlooked founders.
Ryan Graciano
Ryan Graciano, Co-founder and CTO of Credit Karma and GT Alumni Association 40 Under 40 honoree, joins Dr. Charles Isbell, Dean and John P. Imlay Jr. Chair, for a fireside chat about his entrepreneurial journey, how he navigated pursuing a computing degree amid the .com bubble burst and launching a company at the beginning of the 2008 economic crisis, and his view on leadership within a startup.
Entrepreneurship Resources
There are a wealth of resources, both on campus and within the greater Atlanta community, available to students, faculty, and alumni entrepreneurs regardless of experience.
The GT Ecosystem:
The Atlanta Ecosystem:
CoC Twitter Feed
Entrepreneur Success Stories
Mentra
Mentra
Applying for jobs can be one of the biggest challenges for people with autism. Disclosing autism to an employer is difficult, but sometimes even the interview is daunting. But a new app called Mentra could make the process a lot easier. Computational media student Jhillika Kumar is the founder of AxisAbility, the startup behind the app.
Board Off
Board Off
Board Off–founded in 2018 by four Georgia Tech computer science (CS) majors–released the first version of its product in June 2020. The company now has 30 clients in 17 countries and is on the verge of securing its first round of venture capital funding.
OneTrust
OneTrust
Georgia Tech alumnus Kabir Barday's company, OneTrust, provides privacy, security, and third-party risk technology platform to more than 3,000 companies.
Pindrop Security
Pindrop Security
CoC alumnus Vijay Balasubramaniyan is the CEO of Pindrop Security, which analyzes more than a billion calls every year for the purpose of detecting fraud. Pindrop serves eight of the top 10 U.S. banks, and five of the top seven life insurance companies, among a number of other Fortune 500 companies.
BioTrac
BioTrac
Created by three Georgia Tech graduates, FireHUD is a wearable technology that prevents heat stress by sending alerts to a cloud-based platform when a user has an abnormally high body temperature. The alert helps commanders keep track of their team’s vitals and gives them the ability to instruct users to seek safety before ever needing medical help.
More Student Entrepreneurship
More Student Entrepreneurship
Georgia Tech encourages entrepreneurship and has created an extensive ecosystem to support students pursuing new ideas.
