Program Details – Barcelona
The Barcelona Summer Program provides undergraduate students of all disciplines with an opportunity to spend 11 weeks in a vibrant, cosmopolitan, Mediterranean port city while earning 12 hours of GT credit with GT faculty. Running for more than 20 years, this program has been a popular favorite among students!
Join us for an information session with program faculty and alumni to learn more! Information sessions are generally scheduled throughout the early fall semester. For general questions, upcoming dates, and other details, email barcelona@cc.gatech.edu.
Courses
The courses offered through the Barcelona Summer Program are open to all majors and are taught in English by Georgia Tech faculty for GT resident credit. Classes are held on campus at the Universitat Politécnica de Cataluña (UPC). The course offerings vary slightly each summer, but they are typically offered in architecture, computer science, and design, and are intended to fulfill CS and CM degree requirements and integrate with the Threads curricula. Generally the courses can fulfill credit for Institute Humanities, Ethics, and/or Social Science electives. All courses are typically scheduled to avoid any overlap or conflict in students’ selection, and students are required to register for 12 credit hours (4 courses). The courses often draw on interdisciplinary themes and exploit the unique learning setting of Barcelona to optimize students’ academic experience abroad.
View a descriptive list of previously offered courses:
Costs
Students spending their summer studying in Barcelona can expect to pay an application and program charge, in-state tuition, and optional group airfare. These costs are charged and paid through the Bursar’s Office via student accounts. The program charge includes housing, health insurance, transportation to and from the airport in Barcelona (BCN), public transportation in Barcelona, and a few group meals. Students should budget additional money for daily meals, leisure activities, and independent travel. Most Georgia Tech financial aid is applicable to study abroad costs in Barcelona, and scholarships including Zell Miller and HOPE are applicable to summer tuition. Additional scholarships are available. For OIE Resources on education abroad scholarships, click here.
View an overview of program costs:
Please note our cancellation policy: the application fee is non-refundable; students cancelling participation prior to March 6th must pay the first program fee payment of $3,300; cancellations after this date will result in forfeiture of all anticipated or paid program fees. Additionally, Georgia Tech reserves the right to alter or cancel this program due to low enrollment, unavailability of a professor to teach a planned course, or other unforeseen circumstances. If Georgia Tech cancels the program before departure for reasons within its control, all fees paid by participants will be refunded. If Georgia Tech cancels the program before departure or while the program is in progress for reasons beyond its control, such as political unrest or danger to participants’ safety, only those fees that Georgia Tech is able to have refunded by service providers will be returned to participants.
Housing
Students stay at the modern, fully furnished Residencia Onix during their time in Barcelona. This international student residence boasts a number of amenities, including: a 24-hour, English-speaking concierge; Internet access; air-conditioning; weekly room cleaning; common areas such as a roof-top pool, fitness room, computer lab, and study and reading lounges. Double rooms with well-equipped in-suite kitchens and bathrooms are included in the program charge; however, single rooms with a shared kitchen may be obtained upon request, subject to availability, and with a supplemental fee. A housing deposit is required prior to check-in at Onix, which is refundable less any damage deductions or replacement charges.
Apply Now
Ready to apply? Read more about the application process here.
Next Steps
After receiving notice of acceptance to the program (typically late October to early November each year), there are important decisions to make, dates to know, and meetings to attend. First and foremost, check your passport’s expiration date and renew right away if needed!
Review the Next Steps:
