Alumni
The College of Computing has a global network of more than 12,000 alumni working to solve some of the most pressing problems facing our communities. As the college continues to rise in the rankings and provide one of the best computing educations in the world, we want to continue celebrating their accomplishments and providing support to all members of our GT Computing family throughout their lifetime.
There are many pathways to help GT Computing Alumni stay connected to the College of Computing, current students, and fellow alumni as they navigate the next steps in their personal and professional journey. If you are an alumnus, we encourage you to stay in touch, attend events, mentor students, and think of yourself as an ambassador of Georgia Tech’s College of Computing. You are and always will be a valuable member of the GT Computing Community.
-
Update your profile on PeopleGrove, Georgia Tech's recently launched alumni engagement platform. This platform is a great resource for staying connected to the College and your peers, engaging with alumni in your city or around topics of interest, and finding a mentor/mentorship to another alumnus. You can connect using your LinkedIn login, making the process quick and easy.
-
Join the Computing Alumni group on LinkedIn to learn more about events, job opportunities, and other news for GT Computing alumni.
-
Subscribe to our alumni mailing list to receive various communications and event invitations from the College of Computing and the GT Computing Alumni Network.
-
The College of Computing has much to celebrate, including the academic, personal, and professional accomplishments of our alumni. Share your good news with us!
-
The College of Computing Hall of Fame seeks to recognize those alumni, faculty, and friends who have contributed significantly to our advancement and reputation through the years. We intend to recognize the impact of members of our community on the world of computing and computing education. Visit the Hall of Fame to learn more about our past and recent inductees or to nominate a GT Computing alumnus, faculty, or friend for the next class.
-
The Georgia Tech Alumni Association serves to engage the larger GT alumni network, as well as support the continued excellence of Georgia Tech. Visit the Alumni Association to learn more about how you can stay connected with your fellow Yellow Jackets through regional networks and affinity groups, search for a classmate, or access resources available to alumni.
Support the Next Generation:
- Provide GT Computing students with personal and professional mentorship through our Alumni In Residence program on Fridays throughout the fall and spring semester or through Mentor Jackets, where alumni are paired individually with a student for a year-long one-to-one mentor or as minute mentors.
- Hire GT Computing students by posting a job opportunity, participating in the College of Computing Career Fair, or joining our Corporate Affiliates Program.
- Help sustain our students through endowed scholarships.
- Learn more about how you can support the College of Computing
Contact:
GT Computing Helping Stories
Scientists Collaborating on New Data-Driven Approach to Covid-19 Intervention
Team Using Deep Learning to Forecast Pandemic in the U.S.
This Hybrid Mask is Easy to Make and Helps Prevent Disease Spread
Researchers Use Machine Learning to Fight COVID-19 Disinformation
NSF Grant to Fund Research into Psychological Impact of COVID-19
OMSCS Student Uses Machine Learning to Help Understand COVID-19
Interactive Tool Helps People See Why Staying Home Matters During a Pandemic
