Program Details – Berlin
The Berlin Summer Program provides undergraduate students of all disciplines with an opportunity to spend 11 weeks in a high-tech city while earning 12 hours of GT credit with GT faculty. This is the newest program created by the College of Computing due to meeting an increasing need for Computing students wishing to study abroad!
Join us for an information session with program faculty and alumni to learn more! Information sessions are generally scheduled throughout the early fall semester. For general questions, upcoming dates, and other details, email berlin@cc.gatech.edu.
Courses
The courses offered through the Berlin Summer Program are open to all majors and are taught in English by Georgia Tech faculty for GT resident credit. Classes are held on campus at the Technische Universität Berlin (TU-B). The course offerings vary slightly each summer, but they are typically offered in computer science, startup lab, machine learning, and others, and are intended to fulfill CS and CM degree requirements and integrate with the Threads curricula. Generally the courses can fulfill credit for Institute Humanities, Ethics, and/or Social Science electives. All courses are typically scheduled to avoid any overlap or conflict in students’ selection, and students are required to register for 12 credit hours (4 courses). The courses often draw on interdisciplinary themes and exploit the unique learning setting of Berlin to optimize students’ academic experience abroad.
Costs
Students spending their summer studying in Berlin can expect to pay an application fee, and program charge, and in-state tuition. These costs are charged and paid through the Bursar’s Office via student accounts. The program charge includes housing, health insurance, public transportation in Berlin, program activities, and a few group meals. Students should budget additional money for daily meals, leisure activities, and independent travel. Most Georgia Tech financial aid is applicable to study abroad costs in Berlin, and scholarships including Zell Miller and HOPE are applicable to summer tuition. Additional scholarships are available. For OIE Resources on education abroad scholarships, click here.
View an overview of program costs here.
The program charge for 2023 is $7,250* which will be paid in two installments Spring Semester 2023, less the application fee.
Cancellation Policy
The Berlin Summer Program has established a “Go/No-Go” date of November 7, 2022, at which time the program’s viability will be determined. If the program must cancel by this date, students will not incur any financial penalty (i.e. $500 application fee will be refunded in full). Students cancelling their own participation prior to this date will not incur any financial penalty.
After November 7, 2022, the $500 application fee is non-refundable. The program will consider program fee refunds for students cancelling their participation after the due date of the first program charge installment of $3,900 (Spring Semester 2023) on a case-by-case basis, depending on the timing of the cancellation request and the status of the Wait List. PLEASE NOTE it is possible that the Go/No-Go date will be moved later; participating students will receive communications as updates occur.
Additionally, Georgia Tech reserves the right to alter or cancel this program due to low enrollment, unavailability of a professor to teach a planned course, or other unforeseen circumstances. If Georgia Tech cancels the program before departure for reasons within its control, all fees paid by participants will be refunded. If Georgia Tech cancels the program before departure or while the program is in progress for reasons beyond its control, such as political unrest or danger to participants’ safety, only those fees that Georgia Tech is able to have refunded by service providers will be returned to participants.
Housing
Students stay in a modern, fully furnished private room with private bathroom during their time in Berlin. This international student residence boasts a number of amenities including: 24-hour security, high-speed Wi-Fi throughout, regular room cleaning, laundry facilities, and common areas such as study lounges, gym, restaurant and lobby, plus free use of bikes. Accommodations include study desk, flat-screen TV, linens, A/C, and access to a fully-equipped shared kitchen. Located in central downtown Berlin (less than a 10-minute walk from Alexanderplatz) with convenient access to public transportation. A standard housing deposit is required, which is refundable less any damage deductions, cleaning, or replacement charges.
*Note: Housing arrangements may differ in 2023.
Apply Now
Ready to apply? Read more about the application process here.
Next Steps
After receiving notice of acceptance to the program (typically late October to early November each year), there are important decisions to make, dates to know, and meetings to attend. First and foremost, check your passport’s expiration date and renew right away if needed. Learn more about next steps here.
