CoC Undergraduate FASET
Curriculum
CS Curriculum Overview: Go here for a comprehensive overview of the BSCS curriculum.
CS Threads: Go here for a comprehensive overview of the BSCS thread options.
CM Curriculum Overview: Go here for a comprehensive overview of the BSCM curriculum.
Junior Design Capstone Options: Go here for a summary of all four Junior Design options for BSCM and BSCS.
Area C Courses (Humanities): Go here for a list of courses that are humanities and will go in Area C of the core.
Area D Courses (Lab Sciences): Go here for a list of courses that lab sciences and will go in Area D of the core.
Area E Courses (Social Sciences); Go here for a list of courses that are social sceinces and will go in Area E of the core.
Degreeworks: Go here to access the Degreeworks system which tracks courses completed and courses needed.
Academic Advising
CoC Advising Team: Go here for a list of undergraduate academic advisors in the College of Computing.
Academic Policies: Go here for a summary of academic policies for BSCM and BSCS students.
Registration
How to Register: Go here for an overview of how to register for classes.
Common Registration Error Messages: Go here for a list of common errors received during registration and an explanation of each.
Holds: Go here for a summary of what holds mean and how to check them via Buzzport.
Financial Responsiblity Hold: Go here for a summary of what this hold is and how to clear it.
Waitlist: Go here for an explanation of the waitlist function and how to add yourself to a waitlist.
Permits and Overloads: Go here for an explanation of permits and overloads and how to request them.
Recitation FAQ: Go here for a list of frequently asked questions relating to recitations.
Thread Declaration: Go here for a video tutorial on how to declare your threads.
College of Computing Resources
CoC Tutoring: Go here for tutoring housed in the College of Computing.
CoC Student Orgs: Go here for a comprehensive list of student orgnizations in the College of Computing.
CoC Career Services: Go here for a list of resources and events related to career development in the College of Computing.
Campus Resources
First-Year Move-in Resources: Go here for information on move-in weekend.
GT Counseling Center: Go here for a summary of services provided at the GT Counseling Center.
STAMPS Health Services: Go here for a summary of health services provided on campus.
GT Career Center: Go here for a summary of services provided at the GT Career Center.
Office of Scholarships and Financial Aid: Go here for a summary of services provided at the Office of Scholarships and Financial Aid.
Office of International Education: Go here for a summary of programs for study abroad and exchange.
The Registrar's Office: Go here for a summary of services provided at The Registrar's Office.
Center for Academic Success: Go here for tutoring, academic coaching, supplemental instruction and more.
LGBTQIA Resource Center: Go here for a summary of resources available to the LGBTQIA community on campus.
Women's Resource Center: Go here for a summary of resources available to women on campus.
GT Research: Go here for a summary of GT research opportunities.
