Computer Science Tenure-track Faculty
Job Title:
Tenure-track Faculty
Job Type:
Full Time
School/Unit:
Georgia Tech Shenzhen Institute
Qualifications/Job Description:
The College of Computing at the Georgia Institute of Technology (Georgia Tech) invites applications for tenure track faculty positions at all ranks in Computer Science at the Georgia Tech Shenzhen Institute (GTSI) in Shenzhen, China. These positions will reside in China only.
GTSI is a Joint Institute between Georgia Tech and Tianjin University (TJU) and is located in Shenzhen, the so-called “Silicon Valley of China.” GTSI has received approval from the Board of Regents of the University System of Georgia as well as the Chinese Ministry of Education to offer Georgia Tech’s existing Master’s degree programs in Electrical and Computer Engineering (ECE), Analytics, Computer Science, Environmental Engineering, and Industrial Design, as well as the PhD degree program in ECE. Georgia Tech is fully responsible for Georgia Tech academic program operations at GTSI. A subset of the GTSI student body will also receive a Tianjin University Master’s degree (double MS degrees) by completing additional TJU graduate coursework and dissertation requirements beyond the Georgia Tech degree requirements.
Georgia Tech's undergraduate Computer Science program is currently ranked No. 5 and its graduate Computer Science program is ranked No. 8 in the U.S. according to the U.S. News and World Report.
Successful GTSI faculty candidates will be expected to teach courses from Georgia Tech’s curriculum in Computer Science, mentor students, engage in field-related professional achievement and activity, and perform service to GTSI and the professional society.
Candidates can apply to either of the following two tracks which differ in teaching load and research expectations.
- Teaching track: Teaching and service constitute the criteria for advancement for GTSI faculty on the teaching track. Although not a job requirement, teaching faculty are welcome to engage in research as well and supervise student projects. Teaching experience (demonstrated by college level teaching experience, TA experience, or teaching training programs), and some demonstrated record of professional achievement and activity are desired.
- Teaching & research track: Teaching, research, and service constitute the criteria for advancement for GTSI faculty on the teaching & research track. Candidates shall have either demonstrated or shown a clear potential for creative and independent research that would lead to a strong, extramurally funded research program and recognition in the professional field.
Employment, compensation and benefits of these faculty members will be through GTSI. Applications will be reviewed by the relevant faculty body at Georgia Tech -- Atlanta. Successful candidates will be granted Georgia Tech adjunct faculty status and are expected to teach the Georgia Tech curriculum in English at GTSI. Both the faculty and the student bodies at GTSI are expected to be diverse and international. Chinese language skills are not a requirement for employment with GTSI.
Georgia Tech and GTSI are committed to diversity, equity, and inclusion in the faculty and student bodies. We strongly encourage applications from women, underrepresented minorities, and individuals with disabilities. Georgia Tech and GTSI are committed to promoting work-life balance and supporting dual-career employee families.
SALARY: Commensurate with qualifications and experience, academic year (9-month) basis. Summer employment opportunities may be available with additional summer salary of up to 1/3 of academic year salary. Salary will be paid by GTSI.
BASIC QUALIFICATIONS: PhD degree in Computer Science or a closely related field, from a top graduate program taught in the English language, to be conferred no later than June 30, 2022.
POSITIONS AVAILABLE: July 1, 2022, with academic year beginning in August 2022.
CLOSING DATE: Applications will be reviewed on a rolling basis beginning immediately. Applications will be considered until open positions are filled.
How to Apply: Please submit by email to gtshenzhen@cc.gatech.edu, and include “GTSI CS faculty application from YOUR NAME” in the Subject line. Please indicate whether you are applying for the teaching track or the teaching & research track. The application package should be submitted as PDF files and include: a letter of application, curriculum vitae, a statement of professional interests and plans, a statement of teaching interests, and contact information for at least 3 professional references. In addition, up to ten sets of instructor teaching evaluations may be submitted.
Contact Email Address:
